2022 Markup Chapter (#3147)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2022/markup.md

### Document size

HTML payload and document size are a staple in this series, however—we've looked at this information since 2019. But the trend is clear, and while it follows a common theme that other chapters will confirm, too, it's not a great one:

{{ figure_markup(
  image="html-document-transfer-size.png",
  caption="Median transfer size of HTML document.",
  description="Column chart showing the transfer size of the median HTML document is trending upwarsds. In 2019 it was 27 KB on desktop, and 26 KB on mobile, in 2020 it fell slightly to 26 KB and 25 KB respectively, but in 2021 it increased again to 29 KB and 27 KB, and in 2022 it's the largest yet at 31 KB on desktop and 30 KB on mobile.",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRjXjOczLu9q3mcQ-UFLUOmZgefGNCPVYeEwo4cDxQTymgmD_1D5dbZ728Mz1SkEMZHxQgwcWmLjkgx/pubchart?oid=381017848&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1090657426",
  sql_file="document_trends.sql",
) }}

After some brief relief in 2020, document size has continued growing in 2021, and again in 2022, with a median transfer size of 30 kB in our mobile data set.

> Perhaps if we wrote HTML <a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">the HTML Way (Not the XHTML Way)</a> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._

Author: ```suggestion
Perhaps if we followed the advice to <cite><a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">Write HTML, the HTML Way (Not the XHTML Way)</a></cite> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._
```

> Perhaps if we followed the advice to <cite><a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">Write HTML, the HTML Way (Not the XHTML Way)</a></cite> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._

Author: ```suggestion
One way to counter this trend is to <a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">write HTML, the HTML way (and not the XHTML way)</a>, as that would already result in smaller HTML transfer size. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._
```

---
#See https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/wiki/Authors'-Guide#metadata-to-add-at-the-top-of-your-chapters
title: Markup
description: Markup chapter of the 2022 Web Almanac covering document data (doctypes, compression, languages, HTML coformance, document size), the use of HTML elements and attributes, data attributes and social media.

> authors: [j9t]

Author: Editor's fine. All part of the service! 😁

{{ figure_markup(
  content="90%",
  caption="Mobile using the standard HTML5 doctype.",
  classes="big-number",
  sheets_gid="1535288056",
  sql_file="doctype.sql",
) }}

90% of all mobile pages use it—as the mobile data set is largest, this chapter will usually work with that data. Next most popular is XHTML 1.0 Transitional (3.9%, [down from 4.6% in 2021](../2021/markup#doctypes)). After that it's no doctype being set at all at 2.7%, up from 2.5% last year.

### Compression

{{ figure_markup(
  image="content-encoding.png",
  caption="HTML document content-encoding.",
  description="Stacked bar chart, showing 28% of desktop and mobile HTML documents are being compressed with Brotli, 58% of desktop and mobile documents are being compressed with Gzip, and 14% of desktop and 13% of mobile HTML documents are not being compressed at all.",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRjXjOczLu9q3mcQ-UFLUOmZgefGNCPVYeEwo4cDxQTymgmD_1D5dbZ728Mz1SkEMZHxQgwcWmLjkgx/pubchart?oid=1176900527&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1434175283",
  sql_file="content_encoding.sql",
) }}

> Are HTML documents being compressed? How many? How? 86% of them are—with 58% (down 5.8% since last year) overall being gzip-compressed, and 28% (up 6.1%) being compressed using Brotli. To summarise slightly more documents are being compressed, and compressed more effectively.

Author: Yesh Web Almanac is American English.  But it's difficult for me to override 44 years of learning :-)

```suggestion
Are HTML documents being compressed? How many? How? 86% of them are—with 58% (down 5.8% since last year) overall being gzip-compressed, and 28% (up 6.1%) being compressed using Brotli. To summarize, slightly more documents are being compressed, and compressed more effectively.
```

### Languages

{{ figure_markup(
  image="html-languages.png",
  caption="Most popular regional HTML lang values.",
  description="Bar chart showing `en` is the langauge set on 22% of desktop and 19% of mobile pages, `(not set)` on 18% and 17% respectively, `en-us` on 16% and 13%, `ja` on 6% and 6%, `es` on 4% and 5%, `pt-br` on 2% and 3%, `en-gb` on 2% and 2%, `ru` on 2% and 2%, `de` on 2% and 2%, and `de-de` on 1% of desktop and 2% of mobile pages..",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRjXjOczLu9q3mcQ-UFLUOmZgefGNCPVYeEwo4cDxQTymgmD_1D5dbZ728Mz1SkEMZHxQgwcWmLjkgx/pubchart?oid=677908280&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1194853402",
  sql_file="lang.sql",
  width=600,
  height=511
) }}

> What about languages? In our data set, 35% of pages used a lang attribute mapping to English; 17% had no language set; and you already see the difficulties—the sample is likely biased and also not as big as to reflect all of the world, and no lang attribute being used is not equaling no language being set so, this isn't something our data would be useful for.

Author: ```suggestion
What about languages? In our data set, 35% of pages used a lang attribute mapping to English; 17% had no language set; and you already see the difficulties—the sample is likely biased and also not as big as to reflect all of the world, and no `lang` attribute being used is not equaling no language being set so, this isn't something our data would be useful for.
```

### Document size

HTML payload and document size are a staple in this series, however—we've looked at this information since 2019. But the trend is clear, and while it follows a common theme that other chapters will confirm, too, it's not a great one:

{{ figure_markup(
  image="html-document-transfer-size.png",
  caption="Median transfer size of HTML document.",
  description="Column chart showing the transfer size of the median HTML document is trending upwarsds. In 2019 it was 27 KB on desktop, and 26 KB on mobile, in 2020 it fell slightly to 26 KB and 25 KB respectively, but in 2021 it increased again to 29 KB and 27 KB, and in 2022 it's the largest yet at 31 KB on desktop and 30 KB on mobile.",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRjXjOczLu9q3mcQ-UFLUOmZgefGNCPVYeEwo4cDxQTymgmD_1D5dbZ728Mz1SkEMZHxQgwcWmLjkgx/pubchart?oid=381017848&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1090657426",
  sql_file="document_trends.sql",
) }}

After some brief relief in 2020, document size has continued growing in 2021, and again in 2022, with a median transfer size of 30 kB in our mobile data set.

> Perhaps if we wrote HTML <a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">the HTML way (Not the XHTML way)</a> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._

Author: That's the title of the post with capital N as CCS Tricks uses Title Case. However should also be capital W then.

```suggestion
Perhaps if we wrote HTML <a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">the HTML Way (Not the XHTML Way)</a> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._
```

> Perhaps if we wrote HTML <a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">the HTML way (Not the XHTML way)</a> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._

Reviewer: Understand. How about we use the whole title then, and use `<cite>` for it?

If not, this seems to be regular prose—do we have other instances where we use title case?

> Perhaps if we wrote HTML <a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">the HTML way (Not the XHTML way)</a> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._

Reviewer: (Unresolving just to make sure it doesn’t drown. Forgot this earlier.)

> Perhaps if we wrote HTML <a hreflang="en" href="https://css-tricks.com/write-html-the-html-way-not-the-xhtml-way/">the HTML way (Not the XHTML way)</a> that would result in smaller HTML transfer size, and would counter this trend. _Disclosure: Your author here likes to come up with HTML writing classifications, and enjoys promoting minimal HTML._

Author: Completed in https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/pull/3147/commits/3cbae21061635b37c711bc5fdb5c3dc779e33693

When it comes to what elements are being used on the most documents, the list looks a little different:

{{ figure_markup(
  image="adoption-of-top-html-elements.png",
  caption="Adoption of top HTML elements.",
  description="Bar bar chart showing `html` is used on 99.3% of desktop  and 99.4% of mobile page, `head` on 99.3% and 99.4% respectively, `body` on 99.1% and 99.2%, `title` on 98.9% and 99.0%, `meta` on 98.5% and 98.9%, `div` on 98.3% and 98.5%, `a` on 98.0% and 98.1%, `link` on 97.8% and 98.0%, `script` on 97.6% and 97.8%, `img` on 95.9% and 96.1%, `span` on 94.2% and 94.7%, `p` on 89.9% and 90.0%, `ul` on 88.8% and 88.7%, and finally `li` on 88.7% of desktop and 88.6% of mobile pages.",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRjXjOczLu9q3mcQ-UFLUOmZgefGNCPVYeEwo4cDxQTymgmD_1D5dbZ728Mz1SkEMZHxQgwcWmLjkgx/pubchart?oid=714125011&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="2057119066",
  sql_file="element_popularity.sql",
) }}

> But here it's not a surprise that not every document uses `html`, `head`, or `body` tags—the respective tags are optional in HTML and are automatically inserted in the DOM, which is what is being counted here. The reason these are slightly less than 100%, are due to the a small number of pages breaking our detection by overriding JavaScript APIs we use for this detection—for example <a hreflang="en" href="https://mootools.net/">MooTools</a> overriding the `JSON.stringify()` API we use.

Author: ```suggestion
But here it's not a surprise that not every document uses `html`, `head`, or `body` tags—but not because the respective tags are optional in HTML. As they are automatically inserted in the DOM, they are being counted here. That the numbers are slightly less than 100% is due to a small number of pages that break detection by overriding the JavaScript APIs we use—for example, <a hreflang="en" href="https://mootools.net/">MooTools</a> overriding the `JSON.stringify()` API.
```

> But here it's not a surprise that not every document uses `html`, `head`, or `body` tags—the respective tags are optional in HTML and are automatically inserted in the DOM, which is what is being counted here. The reason these are slightly less than 100%, are due to the a small number of pages breaking our detection by overriding JavaScript APIs we use for this detection—for example <a hreflang="en" href="https://mootools.net/">MooTools</a> overriding the `JSON.stringify()` API we use.

Author: Got another suggestion above. Let me know what you think.

> But here it's not a surprise that not every document uses `html`, `head`, or `body` tags—the respective tags are optional in HTML and are automatically inserted in the DOM, which is what is being counted here. The reason these are slightly less than 100%, are due to the a small number of pages breaking our detection by overriding JavaScript APIs we use for this detection—for example <a hreflang="en" href="https://mootools.net/">MooTools</a> overriding the `JSON.stringify()` API we use.

Reviewer: Can we replace “But here it’s” by “It’s”, and in the following paragraph, “It’s a lot more surprising” by “But it is a surprise”? I think that would read better then.

Optional: How about breaking the first sentence up, perhaps by a period after “tags”, and then continuing with “They are…”?

And, what do you think of the double “overriding”? Missed this earlier, but caught it now.

> But here it's not a surprise that not every document uses `html`, `head`, or `body` tags—the respective tags are optional in HTML and are automatically inserted in the DOM, which is what is being counted here. The reason these are slightly less than 100%, are due to the a small number of pages breaking our detection by overriding JavaScript APIs we use for this detection—for example <a hreflang="en" href="https://mootools.net/">MooTools</a> overriding the `JSON.stringify()` API we use.

Author: > Can we replace “But here it’s” by “It’s”, and in the following paragraph, “It’s a lot more surprising” by “But it is a surprise”? I think that would read better then.

Did the first.

Not sure the second is a great idea. Sentences beginning with "But" is generally bad form—it's an indication of a continuation of the previous thought so should really be in the same paragtpah—and for paragraphs even more so!

> Optional: How about breaking the first sentence up, perhaps by a period after “tags”, and then continuing with “They are…”?

I wouldn't break it as seems like the reason it's not a surprise is at least in part because the browser is automatically inserting them. I replaced with an em-dash instead in above suggestion.

I think the double overriding is fine here. We're saying "it's caused by overrides, such as this example override" so it's a deliberate repeat.

> But here it's not a surprise that not every document uses `html`, `head`, or `body` tags—the respective tags are optional in HTML and are automatically inserted in the DOM, which is what is being counted here. The reason these are slightly less than 100%, are due to the a small number of pages breaking our detection by overriding JavaScript APIs we use for this detection—for example <a hreflang="en" href="https://mootools.net/">MooTools</a> overriding the `JSON.stringify()` API we use.

Reviewer: I think it reads better, thanks.

The suggestion to start the next paragraph with “But it is…” was deliberate, for emphasis. (“It is not a surprise that… But it is a surprise that…”.) This is not to argue about it; let’s defer this point and look at how the final/live version reads. Does that work for you?

> It's a lot more surprising to miss `title` on 1% of all sampled documents—this element is not optional and its omission an indicator for lack of conformance checking.

Author: ```suggestion
It's a lot more surprising to miss `title` on 1% of all sampled documents—this element is not optional, and not being inserted in the DOM, and its omission an indicator for lack of conformance checking.
```

        <td>`rs-sbg-wrap`</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.2%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`rs-sbg-px`</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.2%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`rs-sbg`</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.2%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`rs-progress`</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.2%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`rs-layer`</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.8%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`rs-mask-wrap`</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.8%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
  <figcaption>
    {{ figure_link(
      caption="Most used custom elements.",
      sheets_gid="2057119066",
      sql_file="element_popularity.sql",
    ) }}
  </figcaption>
</figure>

That's impressive—but gives us little to work with other than saying that Slider Revolution is used on roughly 2% of all sampled pages.

What are the next popular custom elements that are not part of Slider Revolution?

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

<figure>
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Custom element</th>
        <th>desktop</th>
        <th>mobile</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>`pages-css`</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.1%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`wix-image`</td>
        <td class="numeric">1.1%</td>
        <td class="numeric">2.0%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`router-outlet`</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.7%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.5%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`wix-iframe`</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.4%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.7%</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>`ss3-loader`</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.5%</td>
        <td class="numeric">0.5%</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
  <figcaption>
    {{ figure_link(
      caption="Most used custom elements not starting with `rs-`.",
      sheets_gid="2057119066",
      sql_file="element_popularity.sql",
    ) }}
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> This is more diverse: `pages-css` is an element from TODO. `wix-image` and `wix-iframe` come from the Wix website builder. `router-outlet` originates in Angular. And `ss3-loader` seems to be related to Smart Slider.

Author: Looked at some sample sites containing it:

- https://www.brickstorino.net/
- https://www.convenioscard.com.br/ 
- https://www.ucenter.org/

Seems it's part of Wix? Which would explain why pretty identical numbers to `wix-images` 

Part of [this file](https://static.parastorage.com/services/wix-thunderbolt/dist/main.b48f6cdc.bundle.min.js)

> This is more diverse: `pages-css` is an element from TODO. `wix-image` and `wix-iframe` come from the Wix website builder. `router-outlet` originates in Angular. And `ss3-loader` seems to be related to Smart Slider.

Reviewer: Ah, awesome. Thanks for researching, too.

Can we rephrase? How about

```
This is more diverse: `pages-css`, `wix-image`, and `wix-iframe` come from the Wix website builder. `router-outlet` originates in Angular. And `ss3-loader` seems to be related to Smart Slider.
```

(Essentially just merging the first two full sentences.)

> This is more diverse: `pages-css` is an element from TODO. `wix-image` and `wix-iframe` come from the Wix website builder. `router-outlet` originates in Angular. And `ss3-loader` seems to be related to Smart Slider.

Author: ```suggestion
This is more diverse: `pages-css`, `wix-image` and `wix-iframe` come from the Wix website builder. `router-outlet` originates in Angular. And `ss3-loader` seems to be related to Smart Slider.
```

  sheets_gid="69619977",
  sql_file="obselete_elements.sql",
) }}

On 6.1% of pages, you still find `center` elements (hi <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.google.com/">Google homepage</a> 👋), and on 5.4% of pages, you find `font` elements. Use of both elements went down (down 0.5% in both cases), fortunately, while `marquee`, `nobr`, and `big` didn't witness significant changes.

These two elements make for the lion's share (81.2%) of all obsolete elements, per our analysis:

{{ figure_markup(
  image="obselete-elements.png",
  caption="Obselete elements.",
  description="Pie chart showing `center` is 43.0% of obselete element usage on mobile, `font` is 38.2%, `marquee` is 7.0%, `nobr` 2.6%, `big` 2.6%, `frame` 1.5% and the the resrt of the pie is make up of unlabelled other elements.",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRjXjOczLu9q3mcQ-UFLUOmZgefGNCPVYeEwo4cDxQTymgmD_1D5dbZ728Mz1SkEMZHxQgwcWmLjkgx/pubchart?oid=1875548366&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="69619977",
  sql_file="obselete_elements.sql",
) }}

## Attributes

If elements are the bread of HTML, then attributes are the butter. What can we learn here?

### Top attributes

> The most popular attribute, by far, was and still is class:

Author: ```suggestion
The most popular attribute, by far, was and still is `class`:
```

  description="Barchart showing `og:title` is on 56% of desktop and 57% of mobile pages, `og:url` on 53% and 54% respectively, `og:type` on 51% and 51%, `og:description` on 50% and 50%, `og:site_name` on 45% and 45%, `twitter:card` on 40% and 39%, `og:image` on 39% and 39%, `og:locale` on 28% and 29%, `twitter:title` on 24% and 23%, and finally `twitter:description` on 21% of both.",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRjXjOczLu9q3mcQ-UFLUOmZgefGNCPVYeEwo4cDxQTymgmD_1D5dbZ728Mz1SkEMZHxQgwcWmLjkgx/pubchart?oid=429652195&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="1925328234",
  sql_file="meta_node_names.sql",
  width=600,
  height=604
) }}

Do you need all of this metadata? That depends on your needs. But if these needs are about showing title, description, and image, you don't seem to need nearly as much. You may be able to do with `twitter:card`, `og:title`, `og:description` (hooked up to standard `description` metadata), and `og:image`. The author and many others have described options for <a hreflang="en" href="https://meiert.com/en/blog/minimal-social-markup/">minimal social markup</a>.

## Conclusion

This was a glance at HTML in 2022.

> The conclusion is brief: Going from year to year, it's hard to say what important trends were started or reversed. Document size seems to keep growing—at least from 2020 to 2021 to 2022. The number of elements per page goes up every year too. There may be slightly more `alt` attributes now, but that's relative to itself and we can't tell whether more images now do have an appropriate `alt` attribute set—nor whether its text is really <a hreflang="en" href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/images.html#alt">meaningful</a>.

Author: Personally I don't see need for comma here.

I wouldn't say: "The number of elements per page goes up every year <pause> too"

> The conclusion is brief: Going from year to year, it's hard to say what important trends were started or reversed. Document size seems to keep growing—at least from 2020 to 2021 to 2022. The number of elements per page goes up every year too. There may be slightly more `alt` attributes now, but that's relative to itself and we can't tell whether more images now do have an appropriate `alt` attribute set—nor whether its text is really <a hreflang="en" href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/images.html#alt">meaningful</a>.

Author: Take two with the comment above as GitHub swallowed my `<pause>` point!

But with all of this, the Web Almanac will help. We're going to look at HTML again—next year, the year after next, and the year after that hopefully. And we'll go into more detail again and we'll look back at more years.

> What perhaps we'll also be able to do is to look at conformance, too. Not everyone may care about this at this time in our field. But we're all professionals, and it seems at least relevant to know whether overall, we produce work that corresponds to <a hreflang="en" href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/">the underlying standard(s)</a>. After all, this shouldn't be a chapter about fantasy HTML—it should be one about HTML that actually works. It's one of the most important web standards.

Author: I suggest removing this comma as doesn't seem necessary to me:

```suggestion
What perhaps we'll also be able to do is to look at conformance too. Not everyone may care about this at this time in our field. But we're all professionals, and it seems at least relevant to know whether overall, we produce work that corresponds to <a hreflang="en" href="https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/">the underlying standard(s)</a>. After all, this shouldn't be a chapter about fantasy HTML—it should be one about HTML that actually works. It's one of the most important web standards.
```

---
#See https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/wiki/Authors'-Guide#metadata-to-add-at-the-top-of-your-chapters
title: Markup
description: Markup chapter of the 2022 Web Almanac covering document data (doctypes, compression, languages, HTML coformance, document size), the use of HTML elements and attributes, data attributes and social media.
authors: [j9t]
reviewers: [tunetheweb, bkardell]

> analysts: [rviscomi]

Author: @j9t can you confirm these contributors? I remove the others that I don't believe contributed but let me know if I've wrong.

I'm not sure if anyone other than myself reviewed your doc?
@bkardell you were down as a reviewer, but not sure if you did review or not? Know you're busy with your own chapter, but if you do want to review you can see the doc here: https://20220923t160735-dot-webalmanac.uk.r.appspot.com/en/2022/markup

Reviewer 2: @zcorpan also [gave it a look](https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/issues/2881#issuecomment-1238156094) and should get reviewer credit. Could also be good to give it another look in the website preview and leave any additional feedback.

Author: Ah missed that. Good so @zcorpan and @bkardell reviewed. I'll remove my name and settle for editor. Just didn't want to give the impression it was not given the appropriate scrutiny, but seems it was!

editors: [tunetheweb]
translators: []

> j9t_bio: Jens Oliver Meiert is a web developer and author (<a hreflang="en" href="https://leanpub.com/css-optimization-basics"><cite>CSS Optimization Basics</cite></a>, <a hreflang="en" href="https://leanpub.com/web-development-glossary"><cite>The Web Development Glossary</cite></a>), who works as an engineering manager at <a hreflang="en" href="https://www.jimdo.com/">Jimdo</a>. He's an expert on web development specializing in HTML and CSS optimization. Jens contributes to technical standards and regularly writes about his work and research, particularly on his website, <a hreflang="en" href="https://meiert.com/en/">meiert.com</a>.

Author: @j9t I copied this from your previous bio. Feel free to update as you see fit.

results: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1grkd2_1xSV3jvNK6ucRQ0OL1HmGTsScHuwA8GZuRLHU/
featured_quote: Without HTML there are no web pages, no web sites, no web apps. You can say that without HTML, there's no Web. That makes HTML one of the most important web standards, if not the most important web standard.
featured_stat_1: 2.7%
featured_stat_label_1: Documents using no doctype.
featured_stat_2: 30 KB
featured_stat_label_2: Median HTML document transfer size
featured_stat_3: 29%

> featured_stat_label_3: Elements which are `div`s.

Author: @j9t I picked a quote and a few stats I thought might fit, but normally author's pick these so feel free to change as you see fit. [Here's what it looks like](https://20220923t160735-dot-webalmanac.uk.r.appspot.com/en/2022/?feat=markup#featured-chapter) with these:

<img width="621" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10931297/191994830-f564e19e-afae-4dbd-9745-783968c345c3.png">

Author: Good idea [concentrating on the positive is one of our principles!](https://github.com/HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org/wiki/Authors'-Guide#principles)

```suggestion
featured_quote: Without HTML there are no web pages, no web sites, no web apps. You can say that without HTML, there's no Web. That makes HTML one of the most important web standards, if not the most important web standard.
featured_stat_1: 90%
featured_stat_label_1: Documents using the HTML5 doctype.
featured_stat_2: 30 KB
featured_stat_label_2: Median HTML document transfer size
featured_stat_3: 29%
featured_stat_label_3: Elements which are `div`s.
```

title: Markup

> description: Markup chapter of the 2022 Web Almanac covering document data (doctypes, compression, languages, HTML coformance, document size), the use of HTML elements and attributes, data attributes and social media.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Markup chapter of the 2022 Web Almanac covering document data (doctypes, compression, languages, HTML conformance, document size), the use of HTML elements and attributes, data attributes and social media.
```
